All right, so in this lesson we're going
to be talking about delayed transitions.
And one thing to know
about transitions and
state machines is that transitions
happen in zero time, always.
So when you have an event in one state,
that transitions to another state,
you can always assume that that's
going to happen in zero time.
Transitions are never asynchronous.
And that's why if you're trying to model
something such as async await with
with a state machine,
because state machines are never async
you would be modeling idle,
then loading then success and so
that in between async state
would be that loading state.
However, we could have delayed transitions
that as it was originally described by
David Harrell, in his paper,
and we have to do a little
bit of trickery in order to do this, but
it is natively supported in x state.
So in this case,
when we're in the bright states,
after 5000 milliseconds,
we transition to the dim states.
This is how this transition works.
You could think of it as a transition
that's immediately taken
after 5000 milliseconds.
So here's how that works.
What x state is doing is it's using
concepts that you already know now.
When we enter this bright states,
we have this special delay action.
That tells the interpreter
to send this machine,
a special x date .after
with some extra metadata
after it and
to send that after the specified delayed.
So it's going to say, we're going to send
this event after say, 5,000 milliseconds.
Now if we change dates, then we also
need a way to cancel that event.
And x date takes care of that as well.
So when you exit this date,
we tell it that's the way we just sent
another event to cancel that delay.
And that tells the interpreter that we no
longer wants to send that event after 5000
milliseconds.
So let's take a look at what
that looks like in x dates.
So if we go to exercise number eight,
let's go into the read me for me.
All right, so, in this exercise,
it's pretty simple.
All you have to do is ensure
that you cannot drag a box for
more than two seconds.
So the after syntax for x date is or
the delay syntax is literally just after.
So let's say that we are on so
let's close that, weight index.js.
All right, great.
So let's say that we want something
to happen after 5 seconds.
In order to express that in exit,
we could say after, and
then we could give it, Let's see.
5000 and
then we could tell it to go to a state.
Or remember this is shorthand for
a transition, so
you could have target some states,
or you could do some sort of action.
For now let's just have an action
just to see what happens.
So actions, console.log,
something happened after
five seconds, all right.
Then when we go to our exercise,
we're gonna see that after five seconds,
something is going to
happen in the console.
And indeed it did.
So something happened after five seconds.
Now notice that when we're
in this idle state and
we go to the dragging state, this five
second timeout is going to be canceled.
So let's try that.
Because dragging in 1,
2, 3, 4, 5,
you'll notice that it was canceled and
that happened because we
went to the next idle state.
So, that was actually pretty poor timing,
but
delay actions are canceled
after the timeouts.
So another way to see this
is if we log the state.
So console.log, state.actions.
We can see all the actions that
are supposed to happen in the state.
So when we,
have a minute to just move this up here.
All right, so a lot of actions are
happening, and that's because I'm moving
my mouse, but you can see over here we
have that special x date after action.
And so it's telling us that
something is gonna happen
after those 5000 milliseconds.
And in this case, it's going to send
this event writes back to the machine.
And so if we do something where we
cancel it, so let me just, words.
You could see that when I dragged,
we have this xstate cancel action.
And so it's going to say, hey,
we just exited the state so
that event that we just sent which was
a delayed event, we don't need it anymore.
So your goal in this exercise, which
is a pretty straightforward exercise,
is that while we're dragging,
after two seconds,
we want to transition
back to the idle states.
And you're gonna use this
exact same syntax over here,
after in the timeouts and
the actions right here.
Another way that you could
specify the timeout,
is by having it as some sort of string.
So instead of a number,
just a string such as timeout, and
then you could specify that timeout
as the options .delays property.
So we could say timeout, 5 seconds and
something is going to happen
after 5 seconds still.
All right.